#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass revtex4-1
\options aps,prl,twocolumn
\use_default_options false
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman ae
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 1cm
\topmargin 1.5cm
\rightmargin 1cm
\bottommargin 1.5cm
\headheight 0cm
\headsep 0cm
\footskip 0cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
PHY4362
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

Breeder Reactors
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Mohammed A.
 Chamma
\end_layout

\begin_layout Date
November 10, 2014
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
When nuclear reactions were discovered, it became apparent that the heat
 of the reactions could be harnessed as energy sources.
 Over the course of the twentieth century, many types of nuclear reactors
 were designed and built to utilize this energy.
 The fuel of these reactors are fissionable elements, elements like Uranium,
 Plutonium, and Thorium.
 Of these elements, there are isotopes that are 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

fissile
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

, which are isotopes that undergo fission with low-energy neutrons and occur
 with high probability (like Uranium-235) and isotopes that are simply 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

fissionable
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

, that is, they undergo fission, but require high-energy neutrons and occur
 with low probability (like Uranium-238).
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Early on it was clear that natural Uranium consisted primarily of non-fissile
 Uranium-238 and only contained a very minute amount of fissile Uranium-235.
 Light-water reactors, a reactor design that could generate electricity,
 required U
\begin_inset Formula $^{235}$
\end_inset

 as its fuel.
 Before more Uranium reserves were found, it was feared that we would run
 out of U
\begin_inset Formula $^{235}$
\end_inset

 to use as fuel.
 Thus there was interest in reactions that produced fissile material out
 of the common U
\begin_inset Formula $^{238}$
\end_inset

 isotope, and reactors were designed that produced more fissile material
 than they consumed.
 These reactors were called breeder reactors, because they 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

bred
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 fissile material.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There are two main types of breeder reactors: those that convert U
\begin_inset Formula $^{238}$
\end_inset

 into fissile material, and reactors that convert Thorium-232 (Th
\begin_inset Formula $^{232}$
\end_inset

) into fissile material.
 The U
\begin_inset Formula $^{238}$
\end_inset

 reactors are more common and are called 'fast breeder reactors', as they
 require fast neutrons for the reaction.
 Thorium-232 breeder reactors can use slow (or 'thermal' neutrons) in the
 reaction and are called 'slow breeder reactors'.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In addition to producing fissile material, breeder reactors can be used
 to reduce waste by bombarding heavy elements (actinides) with fast neutrons,
 thus reducing them to lighter fission products.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Despite the theoretical benefits of breeder reactors, these types of reactors
 have been criticized as more expensive than light-water reactors, dangerous
 because of the coolants involved, and unnecessary once more reserves of
 Uranium (and thus, U
\begin_inset Formula $^{235}$
\end_inset

) were found.
 Moreoever, since these breeder reactors produce large quantities of fissile
 material, there have always been fears of proliferation of dangerous material
 through theft or mismanagement.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This paper will examine the nuclear reactions at the heart of breeder reactors,
 some designs of breeder reactors, and a history of constructed breeder
 reactors, as well as a discussion of the future of breeder reactors, in
 light of the current state of the technology and its criticisms.
 
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Nuclear Reactions in Breeders
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So here wwe are a.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
